
Graphical User Interface

Basic Functionality

	A screenshot of the SnipViz GUI is shown in Figure 1 (file 4.User_Interface_Figure_1.png).
	At the top of the interface is a graphical representation of the whole sequence with red bars
	indicating locations of sequence variation. In this representation is a dashed box that represents
	the part of the sequence currently being displayed below. Users may click anywhere in this sequence
	representation to center the currently-viewed window on that location, or click and drag the dashed
	box to move the window.
	Beneath the whole sequence representation is the display of the sequences, themselves.
	To the left are the labels supplied for the sequences from the FASTA file and, optionally,
	the dendrogram representing the hierarchical clustering of the sequences from a Newick file.
	To the right the section of the sequences corresponding to the currently-viewed window are displayed.
	Beneath the sequences, users may click the arrows to page left or right through the sequences.

		Figure 1 Caption: (file 4.User_Interface_Figure_1.png)

		A screen capture of SnipViz displaying the DNA sequence of a gene for 22 different strains of S. cerevisiae.
		The top rectangle is a graphical representation of the whole sequence (1,731 nucleotides long) that serves
		as a whole-sequence navigation bar. The dashed box indicates the currently-viewed segment of the sequence
		and may be clicked and dragged to the desired location in the sequence. The red bars indicate locations
		of variation in the sequence among all the strains. The bottom left displays a hierarchically clustered
		list of the sequence labels, and the bottom right displays the sequences.
		The blue bars highlight columns in the sequence display where variation occurs.

Sequence Highlighting

	Users may click the labels to toggle highlighting of one or more sequences. (Figure 2 (file 4.User_Interface_Figure_2.png))
	If highlighted, a sequence will have its colors inverted to emphasize the sequence and make sequence
	variation among highlighted sequences easier to discern. If more than one sequence is highlighted,
	the indicators of sequence variation (in the whole-sequence representation above the sequences and
	the column highlighting in the sequence window) will only indicate variation among the highlighted sequences.

		Figure 2 Caption: (file 4.User_Interface_Figure_2.png)

		A screen capture of SnipViz illustrating the effect of highlighting specific sequences.
		In this example, the sequence for a protein from 22 differenst strains of S. cerevisiae are shown.
		The user has clicked the names of highlighted sequences to enable highlighting of those sequences.
		The red lines in the sequence navigation bar and blue column highlights of the sequence now indicate
		locations of sequence variability only among the highlighted sequences.

Very Long Sequences

	Because the dashed box in the whole-sequence window represents the currently-viewed segment of the sequence,
	and because that segment is a fixed size (e.g., 50 nucleotides), the width of the dash box will change based
	on the length of the whole sequence. As the overall sequence gets longer, the dashed box representing the segment
	of the sequence being shown will become narrower. If the sequence is long enough, the box representing 50 positions
	in that sequence will be so narrow that it will not be a useful element of the GUI.
	To solve this problem, SnipViz will detect when the dashed box would be too narrow and employ a
	second level graphical sequence representation. (Figure 3 (file 4.User_Interface_Figure_3.png))
	When this occurs, the top sequence representation will contain a dashed box that indicates which segment of the sequence
	is represented by the sequence representation below it. This second sequence representation will itself contain a dashed
	box that indicates which segment of the sequence is being displayed in the sequence viewer area below.
	This method ensures that even extremely long sequences may be graphically represented and simply navigated.

		Figure 3 Caption: (file 4.User_Interface_Figure_3.png)

		A screen capture of SnipViz illustrating the effect of viewing a very long sequences;
		in this case 22 separate DNA sequences each 14,733 nucleotides in length.
		A second sequence navigation bar has been created at the top, such that the dashed box
		in the top bar indicates the region of the sequence shown in the second bar,
		and the dashed box in the second bar indicates the region of the sequence being displayed below.
		Both boxes may be clicked and dragged in their respective sequence navigation bars
		to display the DNA sequence at the desired location.

Indicators of Variation

	As previously mentioned, the whole-sequence representation above the sequences contains red lines that serve as indicators
	of locations of sequence variation among all of the sequences or among the currently-highlighted sequences.
	Both the shade of red and the height of the line contain information.
	The height of the line indicates the number of positions represented by that line that contain variation.
	Because the width of the graphical whole-sequence representation may contain fewer pixels than the number of positions in the sequence,
	each line may represent more than one position in the sequence. A taller line indicates more relative variation at the
	represented position in the sequence than a shorter line.
	The shade of red is meant to indicate the significance of the variation at a given position, with darker red indicating
	more significant variation. In the case of DNA sequences, there are two shades of red: pale and dark.
	Pale red indicates that all variation in that position result in the same amino acid being encoded (silent mutations).
	Dark red indicates that there is at least one substitution at that position among all the sequences that results in a
	different encoded amino acid.  In the case of protein sequences, the shade of red is determined by a calculation using
	the BLOSUM 80[4] amino acid substitution matrix. For all positions with sequence variation, a score is calculated by
	comparing all amino acids at that position against all other amino acids at that position and summing the BLOSUM 80
	substitution values. The resulting values are used to linearly scale the intensity of red in the indicator line between
	a pale and dark shade of red.
	The main sequence viewing area also contains indicators of location of sequence variability.
	These appear as a shade of blue that highlights specific columns in the sequence and appears as an indicator block above the column.
	The shade of blue is determined using the same logic as the shade of red in the indicator lines described above.




